I have this thing called a hierarchy of
smears. And that means if you call
somebody a fascist who's going to
destroy the world, I can call you
anything. [music]
The left has seemingly always ruled late
night. David Letterman,
>> Barack Obama is our new president.
Anybody mind if he starts a little
early?
>> Steven Colbear.
>> They managed to pack a lot of crisis
peanuts into their authoritarian nut
bar.
>> Jimmy Kimmel.
>> He's not just the president. He's also
your most annoying friend on Instagram.
>> Until Greg Gutfeld.
>> The Democratic Party is as popular as
Miss Piggy at Ramadan.
>> Gutfeld's show titled Justice [music]
Gutfeld with an exclamation point
averages over 3 million views a night on
Fox News, [music] dwarfing the
competition. Gutfeld presides over a
round table of regular panelists.
[music] The former pro wrestler Tyrus
and commentator Cat Tim chief among
them. His show is insult heavy and
relentlessly pro-conservative. The Dems
only care about crime when the victim is
trans and the atrocity is no urinals in
the ladies room.
>> Gutfeld was a health and men's magazine
editor before he got his first hosting
job on Fox. [music] He went on to join
the hugely popular political talk show
The Five, which he still co-hosts, and
can now credibly call himself the king
of late night.
>> So go ahead, keep watching Kimmel and
Coar while the answers you need are
right here on Fox every night. Between
CBS announcing the end of Co Bear and
Disney briefly suspending Jimmy Kimmel
after comments he made about Charlie
Kirk, decisions many people viewed as
politically motivated, questions about
censorship and comedy and threats to
free speech are thick in the air. All of
which Gutfeld [music] in provocative
fashion had plenty to say about. Here's
my conversation with Greg Gutfeld.
>> Greg.
>> Yes.
>> Thank you for being here.
>> My pleasure.
>> Uh I want to start with the the biggest
story in late night this year. or
>> biggest stories I should say which are
uh the impending cancellation of Colbear
and Kimmel's suspension. Um do you
remember what your immediate reaction to
to the news of both was?
>> I guess
why did it take so long? Because you
know I had crushed them like bugs,
David. I'd crushed them and I'd thrown
them into the wind and they were still
here.
I call it entertainment welfare. The
only reason why they were around for so
long, despite the fact that their
numbers were dropping, was that the fact
that they kind of like towed the line.
So, I guess when I'd heard that they
were gone, it really didn't surprise me
because the numbers were saying it. I
don't think it was political. I didn't
know anybody, and I'm counting my many
liberal friends who watched them. And I
think it's because it wasn't
entertainment anymore. It was more like
a therapy session for people that were
upset at the world. So you don't give
any credence to the notion that you know
there were larger
corporate political considerations that
went into there wanted to happen. So I
think I think I think people kind of
understand that
they
there's never been anybody who's ever
really folded because of Trump saying
you suck. You know what I mean? If the
numbers were there, it wouldn't make any
difference. Was it extra noise in the
story? Probably. But I I honestly think
that this stuff was the grumbling was
already there.
>> You described uh them as both their
shows as being akin to uh therapy
sessions for people who are mad at the
world.
>> Yes.
>> Uh is there not a way in which your show
functions similarly?
>> Oh, no. I I just our show is fun and um
>> but you can be fun and mad at the same
time.
>> Yeah, you can. But generally I always
try to turn whatever
uh um you know if I'm upset about
something on to me. I'm usually I I
usually like to be at least part of the
punching bag and I encourage that among
the guests that that I am
if I come off as petty about something
that they have to like come after me for
being equally as absurd and stupid. I
enjoy that. The teasing makes it fun and
also I genuinely
like people that I tease. In fact, if
you want to know the people I don't
like, it's the people I don't tease. And
I I people know that when
>> So, you must love the women on the view
then.
>> Yes. I adore I love Whoopi. Uh but I do
and and I and I like the other Rosie. I
love her. But I mean like see I don't I
I guess I I put the people I don't know
are in a different kind of room. But I
make fun of everybody that I love and
and relentlessly.
Uh there are a lot of and I won't
mention but there are a lot of like say
conservative commentators who will not
be teased. This is a very serious
vocation. I I think the success of my
show and the success of the five is
based on the ability to tease. Uh it's
why the people try to replicate the five
and they don't understand. It's so
obvious. The secret sauce is that we
make fun of each other. That is
something that you don't see in the left
at all. And I think, you know, we're the
only people doing it. You asked me
something else. I forgot what it was. Um
I do think I do think um there are
issues that upset me, but I have to I
have to always kind of step back and go
this thing cannot take over my life. So
I make sure it's like the it's like, you
know, I say that Trump derangement
syndrome is now an addiction. uh it's
moved into something that is like it's
creating a filter which every everything
that you look at the people that you
know your co-workers your relationships
are all seen through this if you don't
see this my way we're going to have a
problem so I try to my my uh my reflex
is to always no matter what the story is
is to always kind of put it back in its
box so it doesn't become something that
I think about and and change the way I
view people.
>> You you don't think there's a way in
which your show also sits behind the the
a Trump filter and if people don't agree
fundamentally with the positions
uh that are sort of uh sympathetic to
Trump
that that's that's upsetting for people.
I mean,
>> not in I look at it.
>> It's like you're saying it only works
one way and to my mind watching the show
it seems like it clearly
>> I think that the difference is
>> Trump influences in both directions.
>> Yeah. I but there's a key difference
here is that let's say I may think
you're wrong. You might think I'm evil.
That's where the difference is. The
teasing in the ridicule is not you're
Hitler or you're a fascist or an
authoritarian. If I'm to insult you over
the top, it's because it's obviously a
joke. But I don't put a target on your
back.
>> To be clear, I think you're being a
little disingenuous. Am I really in in
some of your [laughter]
uh I read all your books, you know, uh
really?
>> Yeah. I would go through and you know,
market and you know, sort of the
>> most uh blatant uh counterex example to
what you're talking about is you
literally use the phrase the left are
dumb fascist mother effers. Uh, what
what book was that?
>> I I want to say it was in your most
recent one, The King of Late Night. I I
could be wrong, but it was in one of
your books.
>> Yeah, I'll have to look back at that.
Was it Was it What was the context?
>> The left.
>> Yeah. What Who was I talking about?
>> The left blanket statement, but I mean,
no, but I'm saying what did you pull it
out of? and and was it part of some kind
of amplifying narrative where it's like
these people are a threat to democracy,
it's going to lead to World War II. This
is like the most damaging thing that has
happened in the United States, I
believe, because if you look at
everything from
>> the Palisades fire to Charlie Kirk
getting shot, these are all the product
of amplified narratives, the repetition,
the brainwash of persuasion of being
told over and over again. me. Me I I'd
have to look at that and see what I
said. I imagine that it was in in some
kind of like paragraph of hyperbole
where I was having fun. Um because if it
was in all caps, especially um or I
could have been mocking the actual
language. I don't know. I'd have to
trust you on that. You seem like a nice
guy for now anyway. Well, anyway, go
ahead. Um
>> cuz I know where you're going.
>> Where do you think I'm I was going
somewhere else.
>> Oh, good. Good. Then go somewhere else.
>> But where did you think I was going
after? I thought you were going to bring
cuz you were talking about insults. I
figured you were going to go into the
like the world of insults and ridicule.
>> That was not where I was going. Uh that
might come up later. Yes. You've been
the top rated host in Late Night for for
a minute now. And you know, you sort of
>> kind of like you did right at the top of
our conversation. You hold that up as
like a triumph over
>> Yeah. But I'm having fun.
>> You're having fun.
>> Yeah. It's it's it's kind of like the
same thing that Trump does where he
says, "I got the biggest CR." It's just
something fun to say. Um, but um, more
people say it to me than I say it to
anybody else.
>> A lot of people when they have commented
on your success, they they sort of
folded in with this idea that there
prior to Gutfeld, there hasn't been a
hit conservative late night show. Um,
and do you think there's something that
you kind of cracked the code with or do
you think it's just your right time,
right place because of changes in the
culture? Like why hasn't there been
>> I think it's a a little of both. One is
that late night shows were not political
and then they became political. Um
there's half of the let's say half of
the population that doesn't share those
politics. So they're for the taking.
They don't want Kimmel or Colar in their
living room telling them they're stupid
for voting for Trump. So there's all
those people. But then the other thing
is what you said the change in the
culture. It's like everybody was walking
around going like, "Am I going to get
cancelled? Am I um
uh you know do I have to be scared of
not just what I'm saying but what I'm
thinking and do I actually change like
like do I change my behavior? Uh and I
had always been about sharing the risk
that uh somebody's got to do it like JK
Rowling with in the trans movement. She
obviously is a billionaire. She can
share the risk. She has FU money. But I
thought like somebody could somebody has
to break the ice and say, "I'm here and
I'm going to do this." And whether it's
it's Rogan or Tim Dylan or Theo. Uh
who's the guy that from the show Tires?
I always forget Shane Gillis. Shane
Gillis,
>> like Shane Gillis is a great example. He
was a guy that was shoved off to the
side because he didn't fit the right
formula for SNL. And then he comes back
what four years later and is hosting it.
>> But do do you do you actually see Kimmel
Colbear and Fallon as of competition
with you because you you do very
different things but you do seem to need
them in a way as foils.
>> Yes, absolutely. In fact, you know, I
kind of know myself enough that I do
need foils.
>> Why? Um,
I think when you when like I talk about
this with Jessica Taroff a lot when I'm
writing my notes for the five, I have
her in my head like she's my muse, you
know that like, okay, like what is she
reading? How is she going to respond to
this? And it's very helpful just to have
that rather than just writing for I
don't you know I I write stuff anyway
but when I was in men's magazines my
foils were like Esquire [snorts]
GQ details uh and I just made fun of
them all the time. It was just I think
it was maybe it helps sharpen my
identity and it reminds me of what I am
which is not them. I know that's
circular, but
>> uh is there any kind of actual animosity
there? Because because you know I just
would was looking up stuff you said
about Co Bear. It's like, you know, you
call him a smug loser or something like
that. Though the one that stood out for
me about uh Kimmel was uh let me make
sure I get this right. If that man was
any more full of [__] he'd be a
colostomy bag.
>> Yes. uh does there's not it doesn't tip
over into personal animosity or you
don't have some
>> this is where I thought you were going
to go earlier. I have this thing called
the hierarchy of smears and that means
if you at the hierarchy of smears you
call somebody a fascist who's going to
destroy the world I can call you
anything.
I made this point like in an article by
the New York Times, but they didn't
include it, which bummed me out, which
was uh the cat Cat Tiff article, and the
writer had asked me, she was in the
audience, uh the Gutfeld audience
watching the show, and she said, "You
know, you you during the show, you made
like all of these fat jokes. There were
so many of them." And I'm sitting in
your audience, and I'm saying like, you
know, there's some overweight people.
And I said, "Yeah, but they didn't call
me Hitler." And that's the difference.
It goes back to the the the framing
which is I think you're wrong. You think
I'm evil and I'm never going to call
somebody fat because they because
they're fat. I'm going to call you fat
if you called me Hitler. In the
hierarchy of smears, that's way down
here. And the best part about that is it
hurts them.
It hurts them more than if they were to
call me Hitler because they have to look
in the mirror every day. I know I'm not
Hitler. They know they're fat. It's
funny because cat makes
>> charming. Yeah. What?
>> It's a charming way of looking at
things. Yes, it is. No, Cat it makes me
makes fun of me over this says, "Greg,
you're trying to turn it's calling
people fat into a heroic endeavor." And
it's like, yeah, pretty much. But I
again like just stop calling me a Nazi
or Hitler or a fascist and uh I'll lay
off the physical stuff because the but
but the physical stuff doesn't come
close
to ascribing this moral evil to somebody
that then generates
animosity among people who might do
something to you, who might who might,
you know, come to your house. That's
what I think. I think about that when I
call somebody a name, I go like, "This
[__] deserves this shit." Does that
make sense?
>> I I understand what you're saying. Yeah.
Um I don't know. That's not the same as
saying, "I think it makes sense, but I
understand what you're saying." But if
>> I'll take the I understand what you're
saying as making sense.
>> If you if you were to uh ask to consult
Colbear and Kimmel's writers
uh about how they could make fun of you,
what would you tell them?
>> Oo, okay. So height doesn't work because
a lot of people make fun of my physical
stuff, but I make I do that too. I do
that too. So I guess I think you could
Where's your soft spot?
>> Oh, uh, where is my soft spot?
I don't know. That's funny.
Uh, I would like to think that you could
make fun of me about everything.
Um,
but at this I guess
it's weird because I just explained that
like this is the thing that my hierarchy
of smears.
Maybe that is what it is. Maybe it's the
the what gets me is when you when you uh
call me Hitler. [laughter] That might be
my soft spot.
>> That's that's the line.
>> That's the line, I [laughter] guess. And
I think there's the idea that you're um
willing to take risks in things you say
and and uh sort of push against uh
various orthodoxies. Um what would be
the risky thing to say to your audience?
>> And is that are those risks you're
willing to take?
>> Yeah. What I don't say Cat says. Cat and
I disagree on a lot of stuff. she's um
more in the live and let live mode of
the kind of the trans stuff. I am not I
believe in live and let live, but I
think it's a there's a compelling
um a compelling pressure behind uh this
kind of preferential treatment that is
disturbing and can lead to other things.
Um, I'm always trying to figure [__] out
when it comes to spirituality, but I
have offended my audience if I am uh too
um flippant on religion. Um, but I think
that my audience is pretty generous
because think about it,
my audience didn't exist until I got
there. And so they're aligning kind of
with me in a way. So it would almost
like be kind of surprising if I did like
if there was something we disagreed on.
For example, I I mean I say I'm
pro-life. Uh most of those people are
pro-life. Maybe that's why they came to
me.
>> Do you remember what it was about
religion that you said that uh offended
your audience?
>> God might have just been using the
Lord's name in vain. That will always
that will always piss people off. Also,
religious people are such nice people.
They make you feel bad when they they
don't write angry letters. They ne to
well, you're New York Times product of
the devil. David, let's be honest. But
uh
>> I just because this is going to be in
audio, too. I just need to make it clear
that I uh made an extremely skeptical
face when Greg said, "Religious people
don't write letters."
>> No. No. I said, "No, they write letters,
but they're so polite. there. No, the
ones I get, I'm telling you, man, the
ones I get, it's like, Greg, we always
respect your opinions, but I must ask
you, please refrain from using the
Lord's name in vain. And then they will
try to uh um it's penal said to me the
like he's an atheist. He's like,
>> someone who works at Planned Parenthood
might have a different opinion about how
polite the religious
>> Well, I mean, killing children, so
[laughter] that's part of the game.
>> In your face. Yeah. Uh, [laughter] you
know, there there's a a book of yours
from 2015 called How to Be Right.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Um, and in there you wrote that uh
ideological purity on the right creeps
you out.
>> Mhm.
>> Where do you see that ide ideological
purity on the right today?
>> You know, it's funny. Um, it you notice
that it's kind of been destroyed. That's
weird. I haven't reread that book
because I'm afraid that there'll be
things in there that I have changed my
mind on and I should because I learned
I've learned a lot. I've learned more in
the last 10 years than I have in my
entire life. Ideological purity would be
like drugs. This is also
shows you how you can flip so many
times. So I went for decriminalization.
I I I believed that all drugs should be
legalized.
>> Basically the libertarian position.
>> Yeah. the libertarian position. In a
weird way, people like me who make
decriminalization arguments have the
safety net, I'm not if I if I end up
getting super high tonight, I'm not
going to end up on the street tomorrow.
So, I have that luxury. What about
everybody else?
>> Right. It was an easy for you to make.
>> It's an easy thing for me to make. It's
a and it's an it's almost like a ver in
a way it's kind of like a cool virtue
signal, but then you kind of like you
look around you go, "Wow, there's a lot
of people here that are [__] up."
>> Right? So you're but you're bringing
this up as an example of uh an sort of
an ideological position you held that
has changed. Yes. Uh and I'm more
curious about
ideological positions that you might
hold today that don't seem in line with
uh contemporary conservative orthodoxy.
>> Okay.
>> Like you're saying you're saying you
know the purity test thing is kind of
outdated. Um give me an example. Well, I
think I mean I think like
uh just foreign policy is a good one.
Like I'm definitely like America first I
had to be sold on. I'm still wait and
see on tariffs. I I tariffs was an ide
anti-tariffs was an ideology. I just
thought they were bad.
>> Right. Also a libertarian position
because anti anti-free trade.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Anti-free trade. And and yet
did that did that keep me from like
wondering if it might work or not? I
don't know what happens. I still I still
don't know. I don't know. I know that
it's a tool that you can moderate,
modulate or whatever, but I don't know.
So you you gave two examples, the uh uh
drug decriminalization and uh uh tariffs
that kind of are uh like like I pointed
out in line with uh sort of a
libertarian uh slant to your thinking.
And it's clear from from reading your
books that there has been kind of a
libertarian thrust to your political
thinking. And um it's very easy to
make the argument that President Trump's
policies are problematic when it comes
to libertarian uh uh politics.
>> I don't think he's in any label. That's
the thing. And so my my question though
is that knowing that you you do have
this kind of libertarian uh uh slant is
is the are there aspects of of what
President Trump is doing that give you
pause or or cause for concern?
>> It's like the the flag thing,
>> which what's the flag thing?
>> Um going to jail if you burn a flag. I
get it if it's somebody else's property,
you know, but if it's your flag, you can
do whatever you want with it. That's
that that to me is a mistake. Um
it's funny. I I I don't see I I still
don't really see Trump in any political
party. You know, I see him as ultimately
the way Trump was before he was in
politics was kind of like do whatever
you want, just don't bother me. Are
>> are there uh things that President Trump
does that infringe on people's freedoms?
>> Um let me think. I would I'd say
the flag thing is a potential thing. Um
I think sometimes,
you know, he's when he cleans up a mess,
it can look like it is, but it's like
who else is going to do it? It's like
we're cleaning up a mess that was for
five years. illegal immigration is a
good example of like dude you can't if
you made this mess you can't stand off
on the side and criticize the way we're
cleaning it. So I I think
is there a softer approach maybe but
it's kind of like you got to build
credibility back to be able to criticize
that. you worked for a long time in uh
uh sort of the men's health world at
Men's Health magazine and then also you
worked at uh Prevention magazine. Yes.
>> Uh and I I'm curious to know uh
>> given that experience and you know
you're familiar and had seen a lot of
health fads come and go uh what you make
of the MA, make America healthy again.
Well, I it's weird because when I was
working at prevention in men's health,
you would get there's a there's a
there's like all sorts of movements and
the antivax movement was very tough and
they were all it was always focused
around this Lancet study. There was this
one Lancet study that's that made this
tie between autism. I I I think it's
been completely debunked, but it still
existed. So, that used to drive me
crazy. Um, but I I talk to people and I
understand about the grouping because my
wife is like this. My wife worries about
the grouping of vaccines and there are
questions about other vaccines whether
it's COVID or he is it B or heep C. But
I I have a fairly skeptical eye. There
were some weird [__] working in health
magazines that you come into the reverse
circumcision movement. Guys who wanted
their circ their foreskin back. That was
a thing. Uh there was a woman that once
tried to convince me she could use sound
waves to cure AIDS. There was like I
would run into the weirdest stuff. Um
given your skepticism about that,
doesn't it seem like the there's a lot
that's ripe to be made fun of with the
Maha movement and and antivax stuff and
why don't you do it?
>> I do. I actually do. I I
>> You give a comment every now and then
like you let one slip, but you don't
consistently make fun of it.
>> I'm critical of I I do the autism thing.
I'm really worried about, but I'm
waiting to see what happens.
>> What would you need to see happen?
>> That to make
>> they say that it's it's not vaccine
related, which I think it I don't think
it is. So, I do I I I I think but I do
think,
you know, at least the dude's fit.
>> You're talking about RFK.
>> Yeah. And they're talking about exercise
and they're talking about diet. Um it's
this whole like weird world, I guess,
you know, from the Rogan sphere to RFK
Jr. and just Pet Pete Hegsith. It's kind
of like
>> a renewed sense of like taking care of
yourself is not a bad thing.
>> From your book, The Bible of Unspeakable
Truth. Yes.
>> Uh I don't know [__] when it comes to
medicine, but that [__] is still more
than people like Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
and everyone else who thought that
vaccines cause autism.
>> No. And now you're saying at least at
least he's fit.
>> This feel this feels like a good
trade-off.
>> You can have you can have you can have
two thoughts in your head. I still think
I'm still critical of that and I wonder
if he is too. I think he is I think he
has pulled back from that. But I thought
I that that was like I felt like a
really serious issue because it was
feeding into people's beliefs about
vaccines. But if he's willing to [__] if
if he's willing to pull out of that,
which I think he kind of is, at least
they're investigating it. But I still am
very I'm I still feel the same way. I
don't think there is a I I would be
shocked if they find a link. So, I stand
by that. Nice job, though.
>> I hate to keep just going back to your
books, but there there was something
that uh um in particular that was
interesting to me in a book you wrote a
couple years ago called The Plus. Yes.
Where where you sort of uh lamented uh a
problem that you called the opposition
toxin,
>> which is the inclination of the media to
to always see two groups as in conflict.
Could Gutfeld the show or your career be
possible? Or could could they exist
without the opposition toxin?
Uh, yes. Yeah. As long as it's funny.
There are so many stories that you can
cover without being either or. I mean, I
think I do plenty of them. Yeah. It's
it's it's the thing that you have to
like always
be a party pooper with nuance. Like it's
not exactly this way. It's I call it the
prison of two ideas. And almost
everything has is can be placed in that
prison. Everything foreign policy,
feminism, whatever, gay rights, you name
it, anything can go right in there.
You're either for or you're against. you
know, we can't help but view the world
through, you know, our personal context
and particularly our kind of personal
emotional contexts. You know, emotions
are
>> kind of where all ideas come from. So,
so I I have uh some questions about sort
of your formative years. Um I I know
that when you were growing up,
>> your dad was sick with cancer for most
of your adolescence. And I think you
wrote about how you would have, you
know, come home and, you know, help
clean his
>> his wounds and do physical therapy with
him when he was
>> yelling in pain.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
>> how does that shape someone that
experience?
>> I think I mean
I think it probably I mean maybe
uh kept me from having kids for a while.
I think maybe that like I try I I from a
personal level it was probably like
[snorts] you know f you never know
what's going to happen with your family.
I don't want to be in you know and maybe
I had done my child care when [laughter]
I was young
>> for your dad.
>> Yeah. And maybe that was it. Um, I got
it. I don't know if it like steered me
into the health journalism, but I was
definitely interested in health and I
was interested in fitness and that might
have been uh that my dad's illness
probably got me into that maybe because
and I did, you know, I I I had a
curiosity about like I remember taking
genetics at Berkeley and it was kind of
fairly new, you know, uh, because of
that. So, I think it did have a it made
me curious about
medicine and it probably made me uh like
reticent about like starting families
because you never know, which is a
really stupid reason not to do it.
[laughter]
>> And so, you have a a one-year-old now.
>> Yeah. Well, she's 10 months.
>> 10 months.
>> Yeah. Do are there ways in which being a
father has sort of changed your
disposition to the world or or sort of
what you would like the world to look
like?
>> I I don't think it can make me more
anti-rime than I already was. You know,
when I'm walking around, I like go like,
is this do we have to move out of the
city? What happens if we get this new
mayor? Okay, that's the you know,
whatever. But I I
it's it's kind of it makes you forgive
everything bad you did prior to that cuz
like you can't have a regret. You can't
have a regret for something.
If you were to change that, this person
wouldn't be here. Like obviously I
wouldn't even know that mirror existed
and I would have Joey in Gonimo. But the
thing is, I don't and I have this and
I'm like, [__] Like, I wouldn't change
anything. Which is great because if you
spent decades being uh a reprobate like
I can now say to myself, it's like,
well, I was an [__] for these four
years. These other years I was vacant.
This, but it all led to this. By the
way, it's 12:15, dude. I got to go to
work.
>> I know. We're we're scheduled for
another 15 minutes. So,
>> Oh, really? Those bastards. Sorry.
interrupt. Well, also, just so you know,
then we talk a second time.
>> Oh, well, it's fact-checking.
>> Nope. No, it's a whole second part of
the interview.
>> No, it's not.
>> Yep. It's shorter. It's shorter. Don't
worry. I'm not joking either. It's
[laughter]
>> I don't believe you.
>> No, it's true. So, I just want to There
were two stories in uh a book you wrote
called Be Cool that stood out for me.
And uh
>> or not cool.
>> Not cool. Not cool. I'm sorry. It's I
have the the specific title because the
whole title really is important. It's
not cool. The hipster elite and their
war on you.
>> Uh so in
>> struggled with that one
>> in in that uh book there are two
anecdotes that you
>> uh mention uh still sort of linger with
you and one involved uh a group of kids
in the fifth grade.
>> Yes.
>> The sharks.
>> Do you want to quickly tell that that
story? And
>> Yeah. It's almost like the first real
experience I had with group think was I
think it was after an episode of Happy
Days or something where there was a gang
in it and everybody the next day wanted
to be in a gang and they just decided
they were the sharks but I wasn't going
to be one and I think I was mad because
I wasn't even included in it. It was the
first time I ever felt that the the um
that
>> you were being excluded. Yes, being
excluded and also how stupid they were
acting as a mob. And I think that like
has always been like following me around
a little bit. And so in that book you
say I think you you say uh you your
experience with this gang of kids is you
were banished and you sort of been
banished ever since. Uh um and then you
also tell a story about a kid named
James.
>> Do you want to tell me about James? um
>> in kindergarten.
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. Um boy, you're pulling
[__] out. That um black kid. Yeah. It
was It was weird because we were like
best friends and
then like I run into him, I don't know,
maybe seven years later, something like
that, and he was like
saw me as a completely different person,
like I didn't exist. And it was just
like what happened and I think that was
what I was talk basically I was talking
>> and what do you think happened there?
>> I think that
he realized we were two different races
and that he like he had he had no need
for me. That was basically it.
>> When I read those two stories I and
again it's it's because you single both
them out as being formative in the book.
I thought, well, this is these these
stories are about resentment
>> at being rejected.
>> Yeah.
>> And I wonder how much resentment
>> and also a desire to preemptively
reject before you're rejected drives
what you do now and formed your identity
because the subtext the the all your
work,
>> all your I've really immersed myself in
it for a while. It's all um f you to
this other group.
>> Mhm.
>> All of it.
>> I think that's simplistic, but there is
a kernel to truth. I do think that like
like almost all resentments have your
role in it, right? I think it's fair to
say
>> it takes two to tango.
>> Yeah. And I do think that like um why
Okay.
Like
why do you get mad when you get why do
you get mad when somebody gets a
promotion over you or you get fired and
you get resentful?
It's usually self-doubt maybe that I may
never maybe I'm not good enough. So I do
think there's always there's always
going to be
>> is that what you feel?
>> No, I'm saying that that's I think
that's what I I would say that I would
in that example of like let's say
somebody gets a promotion over me. I
would say like is that person better
than me? that that I think that's a
normal human thing and I think I can
feel that. I can feel that. I don't
think I feel that anymore, but I'm sure
back in the day I did. It's like why is
this person like when I would get fired
I would be pissed off and I would forget
the fact that when I would
get into my next role it would be
better. I didn't have faith in myself to
actually do better.
>> And do you do you have long-term
ambitions beyond what you're doing now?
Is this what you want to be doing 5
years from now?
>> God, I'm 61. There are no long-term
ambitions. I'm happy doing this and uh I
I imagine that the uh the uh vehicles
might change like it feels like things
are always going to be changing.
So, but I have a feeling this is kind of
what I'm doing for now for and now could
be until I'm I don't know 75. I think 75
is a good year. I mean, I look great for
61. Let's be honest. I mean, look at
this.
>> Debatable. Um, [laughter]
>> thank you for taking the time today.
And, you know, we are speaking a second
time. That's part of the deal. You can
get mad at your publicist.
>> I am. I'm going to get mad.
>> It'll be next week, so you have a little
time.
>> The walk back to the office is going to
be very, very cold and and uh and
[music] uh sharp looks back and forth.
>> But, thank you again for taking the
time, and I'm looking forward to talking
with you again.
>> You got it, buddy.
>> All right. Go get my pen.
On the interview, [music]
we really do talk to our guest twice.
So, about a week later, I called up Greg
at home and we talked about how the
right got cool. [music] This time off
camera.
Hey, Greg. Thanks for taking the time to
speak with me again. I appreciate it.
>> My pleasure.
>> Um, so this is something that's been
nagging at me. Earlier you expressed
this idea that a lot of damage has been
done in the country as a result of what
you called amplified narratives,
politically oriented repetition,
persuasion, kind of like brainwashing.
And the thing that's been nagging at me
is help me understand how it's not at
least a little bit hypocritical to say
that because even if it's nominally
comedy that you're doing on on Gutfeld,
you're repeating the same ideas over and
over again with like sort of slight
variations and those ideas basically
being, you know, the idiots on the left
are ruining the country. So, how are you
not part of the problem that you're
diagnosing? Um, I do my best not to call
people Nazis. I do my best not to put
targets on people's back. Now, there
might be times that I violate that, but
low but I pretty much try to hold myself
to that standard. So, I don't think it's
hypocritical. And when you call somebody
Hitler, like if if I believe that you
are Hitler, I would be morally wrong not
to do something. And by the way, this is
not a an uncommon thing. Everything from
the Democrats when it comes to trying to
persuade is always and and it's a good
way of persuasion, fear, but like you
know it's a threat to the planet. You
know, it's a threat to democracy. It's a
threat to your children. If you do not
agree with our beliefs on trans, this
child will commit suicide. What would
you rather have? Alive daughter or a
dead son? That's the rhetoric that I
hear all the time. I try my best not to
use it when you're My dogs. Don't throw
up. Uh he's listening to me. Uh Gus, uh
the um when people talk to me about, you
know, well, clearly there's people on
the right that do this stuff. There's no
question there are crackpots, but
they're almost in the crack pottery on
the right is usually driven from an
internal paranoia, an internal
conspiracy.
Uh it's not welcome. It might be welcome
in some chat rooms, but it's not
welcomed in the media. In fact, we have
a pretty good track record of distancing
ourselves from crazy people.
>> Well, the Dominion lawsuit would suggest
otherwise.
>> Well, I don't know. that's above my pay
grade and I uh I had nothing to do with
that, you know. [snorts] Why did you
bring that up? I mean, it's like it's
kind of like, hey, it I mean, you score
a point with that, but you know, that
has nothing to do with me.
>> Well, I think
>> that's kind of like a that's kind of a
I'm not it's not a cheap shot. You can
ask any questions that you want.
>> You thought it was an unfair comparison.
>> What does that have to do with me? I
thought we were talking in in a larger
context about messages on on the right
and the left.
>> But I think I mean but I mean I'm trying
to figure out
I'm confused. I'm confused by that
example because what's the Dominion
lawsuit involving people saying we need
to kill people. I I I I mean I I don't
I'm talking about a a narrative that
causes people to act violently. I'm
Hello.
Sorry, I have a little dog here that is
driving me crazy. Here you go.
>> That's okay. I understand the narrative
uh you're bringing up and and I thought
Yeah. Sorry. Can I just
>> You get to bring up since you get to
bring up something, I get to bring up
something, right?
>> Okay. Sure. Yeah. [laughter] Sure. So
when we were leaving uh the inter this
is the only thing that's that stuck with
me was when we were leaving and you had
you had and you could tell me if this is
off base and edit it out if you want.
You said that you have a hard time
getting people from the right on your
shows and you said it's probably because
they feel that they don't need to do it
or they know that there's a risk
involved. And I understand that because
I I encountered the same thing with my
show. There are people that will that
will want to do my show but they won't
do it because there's a risk involved.
But we still do like I still did this
interview with you even though I didn't
I felt that there was a risk involved
and I didn't want and because of that I
didn't want to do it
>> but you know who persuaded me to do it?
>> Who?
>> Fox. Oh,
>> Fox wanted me to do this because anytime
there is something like this, Fox will
say, "This is a great thing to get out
in front of people and let them hear
you." And I'm like, "Oh, what's the
point? I don't see the point." So, I
think people have to understand that we
put ourselves out there when almost in
from my personal experience, nobody ever
does. By the way, are you okay with me
talking about this? Uh, I I don't know
the answers. [laughter]
>> I apologize. It's just that it stuck
with me because I was thinking, you know
what? I didn't want to do this interview
because I was weighing the risk benefits
and I couldn't see the benefits, but I
could see the risks. I think I
[clears throat] said to you like, why
walk a tightroppe between two buildings
when you could just cross the street and
and um
>> No. Can Sorry, Greg. I I understand and
I appreciate you taking the risk and
again I I just want to say perhaps my
comparison was uh not a fair one. The
reason I brought it up and maybe I was
misunderstanding the point you were
making but the reason I brought it up is
because I interpreted what you were
saying as being that we being Fox
doesn't have a place for conspiratorial
thinking. And then so when I heard that,
I thought, well, there's evidence, the
evidence being the Dominion lawsuit,
that no, Fox did have a place for
conspiratorial thinking.
>> Gotcha. Yeah. I I Yeah, I was focusing
on things that put my life or your your
life at risk. Those kinds of things. Um
that other stuff, the conspiracy type
stuff. To me, I'm holding a dog toy. I
can't see myself, so I have no idea what
I'm [laughter] doing. But um um right G
sorry that's okay. Um I want to move on
move on from this subject. All right. Uh
>> I'm sorry but he's he's he's driving me
nuts and I don't I I'm alone so I can't
really put him anywhere.
>> No, it's it's nice to get a a glimpse of
this is what Craig Gutfeld's life is
like when when he's on his computer.
It's nice. If anything, it it helps
create a sympathetic portrait of you. I
got this from uh uh reading um a book on
power. Have a dog show up in the middle
of an interview.
>> Yeah, this is not even your dog. It
turns out it's a prop dog.
>> There's a whole company that rents out
prop dogs for uh contentious interviews
with the liberal media. This [laughter]
is a cons It's a conservative
organization. And get this, these are
strays. These are strays. And after we
use them in the
>> They're back on the street.
>> Yeah, they're back on the street. But
they get a good meal.
>> All right. Go away. [laughter]
>> Go away.
>> Um, there's an idea that I've heard you
express. It's one that I've heard other
uh, comedians express to. Andrew Schultz
has said it and that idea is that the
right is now the cool side and the left
are the scolds, the the wet blankets.
And you wrote a whole book about call to
not cool. You know, it's sort of
defining yourself in opposition to being
cool. And I just want to know like how
do you think about what cool is now and
what benefits it confers on you and also
what flaws it might conceal.
>> It's a good question. So I wrote uh it
must have been like it could have been
20 years ago. It was called the Dean
Wormer effect and it was about how as uh
whether you're
>> Animal House Dean. Is that Dean?
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> It's like the the um the way people view
conservatives versus liberals is
[snorts] Dean Wormer and Animal House.
The liberals are Animal House. The
Conservatives are always Dean Wormer.
And my goal was to flip that and it had
to come down to humor. How people take a
joke. So I think what what is I I don't
like the word cool but what is
considered I don't know fun
is whatever upsets your teacher and when
you saw an overwhelming number this is
where I think the real uh Trump fandom
came into play among young people was
how much it pissed off their teachers
and you saw this growth of um I don't
know tape uh people recording their
teachers that showed up on Twitter and
Instagram of uh a teacher talking about,
you know, if you vote for Trump, I'm
going to fail you. Stuff like that where
they they think they're not being
recorded. They say something funny, then
they get in trouble. So, I think what
happened was teachers represent the
scold, the adult symbol of this, you
can't do that. And that creates a whole
thing of oh yes, we can. And that's kind
of the flip. And in comedy, you're
supposed to be the one the cl I mean,
that's where the class clown probably
originates is the comic is there to make
the teacher crazy. Once the left got too
comfortable, got into power, they
realized they didn't have to have a
sense of humor anymore. And that's why
you saw, you know, a lot of people
getting cancelled and stuff. Let's take
that diagnosis to be true. Now that you
are the cool one, does that carry any
any risks or you know arguments you made
in the past were that the people who are
cool end up being condescending,
dismissive, exclusionary? Um
>> I think I think there's two points to
make. I uh am the last person to think
that I'm cool.
>> Well, we can agree on that. Yeah.
>> Well, thank you, David. [laughter] Thank
you. Um and uh I mean I'm 61
and um
>> you make Dean Warmer references.
>> I got a Frenchie sleeping at my foot.
>> Yeah,
>> this is not cool. But um there is you
know what there is a danger of when you
ascend
you replicate the very practices that
you hate.
>> Yeah,
>> that is a cons. I think that is a
concern
in in in every in like I I try for
example I try never to say that's not
funny because that shouldn't matter.
Like if let's say let's say Kathy
Griffin says um she makes a joke about
Donald Trump. If my first instinct is to
go well that's not funny. Uh, it doesn't
it shouldn't matter whether it's funny
or not. That shouldn't it's just like
that's what she says. That's fine. Not
my cup of tea. But I'm not going to go
and go, you know what the problem is?
That's not funny. It's like funny is
subjective. I'm telling you, as you
probably know, there's a equal number of
people who find me unfunny and that's
fine. I'm an acquired taste. So you have
to I have to remind myself is whe
whether I find something funny or not is
irrelevant.
>> Um the just the the last question
because I I know you have to run but um
what are you most idealistic about?
>> H
I
God that's that's a schmaltzy question
but it has a schmaltzy answer. I really
love life
and um I used to be
somebody that um expected things to go
my way
and so when things went well I was I
just expected it and when things didn't
go well I was pissed off and now it's a
very simple filter flip and it's now
it's like I expect everything to be
difficult
And then when it goes well, I'm
incredibly grateful. And that one little
switch, it's literally a flip, has
changed my life. I don't know if that's
that I guess I'm ideal. Yeah, that's
probably it. I should shut up because uh
that's it.
>> You probably expected this to go badly
and then it went well.
>> Yes, exactly right. If I expected coming
into this interview that this thing was
going to somehow change my life and I
was going to own the libs, uh, then I
would be a cranky, contankerous
[__] But in this case, I'm like, you
know, we'll see what happens. He'll
probably have some penetrating
questions. He'll probably try to
psychoanalyze me. He might even bring up
dominion, you know, but I can. But
knowing that ahead of time, I'm like
pleasantly surprised. David is not a bad
guy. He doesn't mind my dog.
>> I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro.
>> And I'm David Marquesy. [music]
>> And we're the hosts of the Interview, an
audio and video podcast from the New
York Times.
>> Every week, we interview fascinating and
influential [music] people from all
walks of life.
>> Subscribe to our YouTube channel so
you'll never miss an episode.